# INDUCTION PROGRAM 2025
## Day1
#### Induction program for B.Tech first year students was held in GURU NANAK DEV ENGINEERING COLLEGE, LUDHIANA on 31st july,2025 with great energy and excitement to warmly welcome the freshers of Computer Science and Information Technology branches.
#### The event took a great start with shabad kirtan at Gurudwara Sahib from 8:30 am to 9:30 am providing all the newly admitted students with blessing of almighty God for starting an exciting journey of their life at GNDEC.
[link](https://www.instagram.com/p/DMu_PYQzoKK/?utm_source=ig_web_copy_link)
#### Proper arrangement for tea and snacks too were made for all the students.
#### The inaugral session was started in the college auditorium with inroducing the students to to the legacy,vission,mission and values of this prestigious intstitution by Mr. HARSIMRAN SINGH JAGGI who further provided students with information about facilities,acedamic excellence,research support and varioues other opportunities that GNDEC offers.
#### The session was further followed by addresses from two brilliant alumini(batch 2021-25):Mr.SANGAM ARORA( CSE topper placed at Arguesoft) & Mr.ARSHPREET SINGH( IT topper working at Airtel,Gurugram) who shared their journey and valuable experienes in GNDEC that motivated all the students to a great extent .
#### All students got the privilege of listening to Mrs.HARPREET KAUR GREWAL(HoD of applied sciences),Dr.AKSHAY GIDDAR(Dean Acedamics),Dr.SEHAJPAL SINGH(Principle) and Dr.PARMINDER SINGH(Dean Student Welfare) who delivered insightful and welcoming messages to encourage all the freshers.All of them enthusiatically interacted with the students and guided them on academic planning and instiutional culture.
### The event was graced by the presence and impactful words of two distinguish Guests of Honour:
* SHRI RAVINDRA GARG(Chief Engineer,Muncipal Corporation,Ludhiana)
* ENGINEER RAKESH KUMAR(an illustrious alumnus of the batch 1991 and currently the ADC,Ludhiana)
#### Further,SHRI ASHOK SINGLA(Financial Advisor) too interacted with students and helped them view their future with his practical insights and motivating words.
#### At last, students visited their respective departments and labs where more information about academics was provided to them by various faculity member.
#### Overall,it was a remarkable day for all CSE & IT students for them a powerful start to thier proffessional and academic life.
## Day2
#### Second day at GNDEC for CSE and IT students started by English proficiency test from 9:30 am to 10:30 am.Later on, Maths proficiency test was also conducted from 11:00 am to 12:00 pm,providing a great experience and opportunity for the students to identify their weaknesses and work on improving them.
#### I would also like to mention about hardworking seniors who encouraged and inspired all the freshers by patiently helping and guiding them throughout the day making it a lot easier for students to start their college life.
#### After tests, a break was of one hour was provided during which students were free to explore the campus.
#### Further,a great session took place in the college auditorium with the vision of helping needy students to apply for scholarship under SATYA SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM 2025.
#### Dr. ARASHDEEP SINGH interacted with the newly admitted students delivering them an awesome lecture on "Food and its vital role in student's overall wellness".This lecture helped students in knowing the importance of balanced diet in student's life for better performance in academics and how good food contribute to good mood.
#### Last but not the least , a session by members of CAUSMIC CLUB was conducted for launching the induction activities.All the members did a wonderful job by helping students calmly in solving problems faced by the freshers and  the day2 ended well with several new memories and motivation to move forward in the direction of one's goal.
## Day3
#### Another wonderful day of 4-year journey started at 9:00 am with an expert lecture by Dr.JASWINDER SINGH(Education Professional ,Science Communicator and Innovator)who energetically interated with students and provided them magical knowledge about inter-relation of God and Science along with really fun experiments  keeping all the students atentive and engaged.This session aided students in awaring the significance of meditation and introspection in daily lives.
#### While this amazing lecture ended,another impactful lecture by Dr.PRIYA DARSHINI madam commenced on "Basic Human Aspiration and its Fulfillment" that really helped in creating better understanding among students about the main motive in life (i.e. achieving state of continuous happiness and prosperity) and how one can achieve it.Reasons behind occoucrance of certain unwanted emotions and ways to control them were also shared with an objective to assist students in making positive changes in their life that leads to holistic development and thus reducing the gap between what one wants to be and what they currently are.
#### Both sessions took freshers one step closer to their goal by inculcating vital qualities like confidence,positivity,determination,discipline,patience etc. that are needed for a successful life.
